Konstantin Korotkov is considered to be
among a handful of the premier physicists in Russia,
a country that reveres its scientists.
I considered it a genuine honor to have an hour
of his time so that he could bridge our understanding
of the unseen world of energy with scientific principles.
As a professor of physics, Konstantin holds 12 patents
on biophysics inventions, including that of his renowned
bioelectrography device, which captures living
energy fields around people, plants, and water,
all living systems.
This device has allowed us to peak into the essence
of the life force itself, including our food supply,
the water we drink, and the energy that occurs
when two or more gather.
(gentle instrumental music)
The word "energy" is now coming to the forefront.
You can even hear it on the evening news,
usually with some sort of derogatory statement
following it, because it's considered new age.
However, it's anything but.
It's the building block of everything
and you have done remarkable work in measuring
the energy output, so that we can really start
making a crossover from the world of science
into the world of energy, energy healing, and so forth.
Can we start with some of the very common elements
of life around us, our air, our water, our food sources?
I know you say Americans have horrible food
and you're absolutely right.
Begin there or wherever you'd like with this.
Okay, so you're absolutely right that now the word
"energy" is very, very popular, but to use any word,
first of all, we need to get definition.
What do we mean by that?
Because in a lot of metaphysical background
environment, they use this word without any meaning
and without understanding.
When they use energy healing,
"Sorry, what do you mean by that?"
First of all, we need to make very clear definition.
I am a physicist with background in quantum physics.
I have spent many years in Soviet Union in this
type of research, so for me, it is absolutely acceptable
to take normal physical definition of the word "energy."
We have many different types of energy.
We have energy mechanical.
We have chemical.
We have physical energy.
We have potential energy, kinetic energy,
and, in particular, in biology in our research.
We use energy that we define as energy of electrons.
Of electrons, yes.
We can measure, in principle, and exactly define
the energy of electrons and typically,
it's measured in electron volts.
Then we can tell that we have electrons
in the ground state in organic molecules,
and we have excited electrons that have extra energy.
This energy may be accepted by light.
Of course, when we accept light, mostly sunlight,
we increase the energy of our body.
This means that we increase the energy
of particular specific electrons.
This same way, we can increase energy
by electromagnetic impulses, by different fields,
and these electrons may be transformed
from one part of the body to another part of the body.
When we tell about energy, energy circulation,
energy movement, energy mediums,
we mean that we define this energy as electron transfer
along protein complexes in organic tissues
and, in particular, in connective tissues.
In Russia, we have a very strong line of biophysics,
and what's demonstrated and proven in biophysics,
is that electron transfer in complex organic molecules
can come due to tunnel effect.
Say that again?
Tunnel effects, so it's jumping off electrons from one
group of molecules to another group of molecules,
because it was a big question, how it's possible.
Of course, we have a lot of electron transfer
due to electrolysis, because in our connective tissues
we have always some water molecules,
and these water molecules allows to
organize this electron transfer.
This is, from our point of view,
is the basis of all this energy transfer, energy work.
Which is what the energy work
of energy healers, Reiki and so forth?
No, no, no.
No?
Okay, let's not mix together everything.
Okay, so that's what i was asking.
When we talk about the energy healers,
are they actually affecting these exact
portions of the, you say, through the water,
through the connective tissue and so forth?
Is that what they're --
Yes, they do this through the water,
from our point of view, and when we tell that
a person is full of energy or is lack of energy,
it means that there are electrons
that are transported through mitochondria
and then they are used to produce ETF, ADF,
to really get energy to muscles
and to different organism systems.
We are based on normal biophysical
concepts of energy stimulation in the body.
This concept is underlied by electron transfer.
From this point of view, then it's understandable
if we have some device, or human influence,
or the influence of some particular food or water.
This is designed only to provide those electrons
to different parts of the body.
Our brain, our mental concentration would allow us
to redistribute those electrons
from one part of the body to another part of the body.
In oriental practice, it is known as energy movement
along chakras, along meridians, along kundalini,
and it's really effective because it's measurable.
Right.
We can measure the output of photons or electrons
in different parts of the body.
We can measure temperature in different
parts of the body, and this allows us to see
this transfer of energy.
They have actually been, even,
the images of this have been captured
using radioactive isotopes along meridians,
acupuncture meridians, by Jean-Claude Darras years ago.
We can see that there is a movement of something
beyond what is clinically definable.
No, but it is clinically definable,
but the problem is that no one was able to define meridians.
Meridians, exactly.
Because they don't exist.
We don't need some mythological paths,
because it's transfer of electrons.
Transfer of energy uses electron transfer
through the connective tissues,
through the bone marrow, so it may be done in any part.
There seems to be some specific areas where
it is more likely to have this transfer,
but it depends on condition.
Any doctor, acupuncture doctor, knows that some points
may be active, some may be absolutely slow.
Some give big resistance, some give very low resistance.
It totally depends on the condition of the person
and time cycle of a person.
Because it change with time, it has its own cycles.
The human body, the human being,
having its own cycles.
We breathe, we sleep, we eat, we drink water,
and basically, we're living in a world,
certainly in the western world, in the United States
to a very good extent, that is denuded of any kind
of really vital energy source, starting with our food.
The vitality, and you have actually taken it upon yourself,
you've done a tremendous amount of travel,
to be able to measure the output, the electron,
I guess it's the electron output
of all of these substances.
What have you found in the modern,
the way in which we're living in the modern world?
We are measuring the output of electrons and photons
stimulated by electromagnetic field.
It is quantum process, that's why we can measure it
at any subject, whether it be living being,
whether it be water, some cosmetic product,
leaf, plant, or stone.
The only difference that for human being,
it is some changeable process.
It is repeatable, very quite stable,
but it has some line of variation.
We have much stronger energy in daytime,
then it comes down, then again it increases,
then it comes down again.
We have a cycle.
We have a day cycle.
We have a month cycle.
We have a cycle during the year,
and we have the main, in our life, 11-year cycle.
When we are measuring food, again,
we are measuring this output of electrons and photons.
We have database of situations when we are measuring
good food, organically grown, conventionally grown,
and chemically grown.
Of course, it's tremendous difference.
This difference has an impact
on our overall health, the quality of our lives,
our energy levels.
Yes, it has very clear effect on our health state.
It was study done by different groups
using different instrumentations, including ours,
that demonstrated that people who drink good water,
and by good water, we mean, first of all, natural water,
water from natural springs,
water that have a low level of contaminations,
that have appropriate level of different minerals
and substances.
People having good food, again, natural food,
they have much higher health quality
compared with people who use conventional food
or just artificial water.
When you come to America, and you do these
kinds of events where you have to be in a city
for a few days at a time, what do you notice
the primary difference between food from your garden
in Russia compared to here?
Not only my garden.
In Russia, we have very good food
and very good tradition of food.
People really care preparing food.
In United States, it's fantastic country.
It's a great country, and this country was great
in developing different technologies.
It was first technology in car-making,
technology in electronics, and technology in aviation,
so every technology was designed to the best
and the highest level.
Same was done in food production.
It was designed as technology,
and it was huge factories, and it is huge factories
producing meat, chicken, vegetables, foods.
It's designed like factories with very high effectiveness.
It was interesting idea, but then it was found
that this idea work for people.
No.
Because, first of all, in this production,
it's necessary to use a lot of chemicals
because to keep, for example, a thousand of chicken
together in one little place, relatively little,
you need to use antibiotics, you need to use
a lot of different chemicals, medications,
and, of course, a lot of drugs to let them grow.
Hormones.
Hormones, absolutely.
Then it all comes to people,
and it all is kept in people's body.
I think this is one thing that is
just becoming better understood now,
which is the passed on effect of these antibiotics,
and also the hormones are changing the maturation rate
of the people in this country.
Absolutely.
It's been bumped up, what, a year and a half,
two years, the rate of maturity
because of these effects, right?
Aside from the fact that 25% of all antibiotics
don't even work anymore.
Sure.
Not good.
Actually, it's a very bad station because
we need antibiotics in our life.
We need it, and it was fantastic achievement
of humankind to develop antibiotics,
but when they are used on every step,
of course, they lose their effectiveness.
We have a lot more and more microcultures
that are resistant to antibiotics,
so they need to develop more and more stronger antibiotics.
Of course, any antibiotic has tremendous side effects.
They tremendously destroy all microflora
in our stomach, in our colons,
and people have to restore it later on.
This is a big problem.
It's tremendous problem.
Well, and passed on,
even drugs such as Prozac.
Of course, it has --
I mean, in the water supplies,
city municipal water supplies, there are still
signatures from that drug in the drinking water
that are not purified out.
Absolutely, absolutely.
It is really tremendous problem of using medications
when they are not really necessary,
without any understanding what would be
the long range effects,
mostly for children.
Yes.
Because children, they grow up.
Their organisms are very subtle,
and when they use medications to control their growth,
to control their behavior, it is dreadful.
It's a crime.
It is a crime.
I couldn't agree with you more,
and the lack of education because this is the way,
this is how we are educated, that these foods,
mass culture of these factory foods
are the culture.
It's counter-culture to find sources that are,
again, until now.
Now it's becoming more popular.
Some movie stars have gotten on board.
It kind of takes a movie star to make something popular.
Yes, and you see the example of United States.
Really it is a bad example for all the world,
because it's the most rich country in the world.
It's most developed country in the world,
a country where you can find everything if you want.
But the country where the health of the population
is quite bad.
Oh, we're starving to death for real nutrients.
Yes.
As we get fatter and fatter,
we are starving to death.
Yes, absolutely, absolutely.
This goes with our,
I'd like to go back to water for just a moment.
You were talking about natural spring water,
which, of course, a very small percentage
of the population would actually have access to,
but what about some of the technologies.
Patrick Flanagan's work and others,
where they use elements, megahydrate and such,
that structures water.
Are these beneficial if you're trying to restore
some energy to the water?
Tremendously beneficial.
Okay.
Of course, you're correct that to use
spring natural water, it's difficult,
but anyway, you can find it in stores.
You can find on one shelf.
It will be, "Good water prepared with good minerals."
Understand that it is distilled and then
some minerals added.
It is absolutely dead water.
Then you can find, practically same price,
water from natural springs.
I've heard you also mention the fact that
water, the movement of water, is what helps
structure water, so in some cultures,
they actually observe a practice of pouring.
Yes, absolutely.
The pouring of the water before drinking
is very important.
Can you talk about that from a scientific viewpoint?
These are not just old wive's tales.
Yes, so when we apply a strong movement to water,
we dissolve water molecules.
They create active radicals.
Those radicals exist for billionths fraction of a second,
but it's enough to combine a different structure in water.
Most of the structure comes due to some minerals
that are kept in water, because practically pure water
doesn't exist at all.
It's just mathematical model.
We always have some impurities in water,
but it's normal.
Then they create clusters around this atoms and molecules.
These clusters, they have a structure of a particular
mineral or particular crystal,
so they make water crystallized.
After this, water is much more structured.
It has not --
Why is it important to have structured water?
Because our blood, it is a structured liquid.
Our inner liquids in our stomach,
it's all structured liquids.
It's very easy to show.
Please put a drop of blood on the glass and you will see,
in several seconds, it will be structured.
Even if diluted, you will see some structure.
Now, distilled water, though.
You take water and you distill it, no structure?
No structure, absolutely,
because it is absolutely chaotic process.
Devices that structure water, they are very useful,
but we need to take into account two topics.
First of all, water should be pure.
It shouldn't contain negative contaminations.
Arsenic, chlorine.
Arsenic, chlorine, then iron, then mercury.
A lot waters from commercial sources,
they have these impurities.
What is recommended, because it's due to pipes.
We have so many pipes and it's understandable.
What is the first step should be?
To use normal filters.
Normal filters?
Yes, normal filtering system.
Typically, it's several stage of filtering.
Right.
Reverse osmosis, is that okay?
We don't need reverse osmosis.
We need just normal filtering.
You mean like charcoal
or what do you mean by normal?
Typically, it comes, the first stage comes,
in paper filter.
It filters out main impurities, big impurities.
Then it is coal filter, then it's microfiber filter.
Okay.
We don't need reverse osmosis,
because it change the structure.
Filtering, it keeps the structure
and coal, it makes it even more structured.
Then, it makes sense to use some energizing device
that makes a structured water, like Flanagan's,
like Gia water, like something --
Now-a-day era, there are a lot of devices
of this kind available.
Of course, they should be tested,
but some of them are very effective.
Then you have really good water,
even from tap source in any city.
Right, and this is really
a foundational key to energizing our bodies again.
Yes, this is a key principle, and key element.
Okay, so we've talked about food.
You don't want food that's basically grown
factory-style and dead.
You want organic food, grown from land
that's been treated properly and vitalized.
Yes, of course, but the first thing, what I do
coming to any market or any store,
I just smell the food.
You smell it, yes.
Yes.
Most of it has no smell
in the grocery store, in the supermarket.
Yes, if it is no smell, then it is synthetic.
If it has some smell, then it has something to the earth.
It may be not even organically grown,
it may have some fertilizers, but anyway,
if it has smell, that means it has something
from the earth.
Some kind of life force.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Okay, well that's a good one.
Then it is good for our health.
What about genetically modified organisms?
We have a lot of study now in Australia, in Russia,
that demonstrate that GM food are really
dramatic for animals.
The changes in the animals,
by eating them you mean?
It was experiment then they feed rats
and rabbits with GM food.
What happened?
In second, third generations, they have a lot of
deformed offsprings, a lot.
Second and third generations,
that's not that far out.
It's actually making changes in the DNA?
It makes changes in DNA, absolutely,
in DNA structure.
It was study done very precisely, very carefully.
The principle is, we don't know exactly
what would be the long range outcome of this GM food,
because it is artificial mixture of different genes.
Genes that may be really damaging for the body.
The main principle is, we can consume
anything in little quantities, will be even poison,
in principle, you can recover.
We are.
Arsenic, it's in the water.
Yes, in principle.
But our liver, it keeps these traces of different
negative influences, and it keeps for the time being,
and at some moment, it comes to some level
when we feel it and our system reacts to this.
Right.
Well, it's interesting, they've done these studies.
What has the net effect been?
Did you say Austria or Switzerland, where these studies --
Australia.
Australia, okay.
Australia and in Russia.
And in Russia.
Some studies in Switzerland as well, I know of.
Are GMO, are they banned in those countries
as a result of that?
In Russia, it is banned.
In European community, it is banned.
I don't know about Australia.
Okay, interesting.
We're quite a bit behind here in the U.S. on that.
Yeah.
Still trying to argue the point publicly,
for public opinion, that they are safe and okay.
We're still there.
Yeah, because it's big money, we all understand.
Because it's tremendous money.
Tremendous money.
Yeah, because this GM food, farmers can't
keep this GM grains for next harvest.
They need to buy it.
Yes, Monsanto.
Absolutely, so it's tremendous money for the industry.
Well, as a naive reporter about,
oh maybe 15, 17, 18 years ago,
I actually was invited to do a story
on the flavor savor tomato at the university,
not understanding any of this, except there was a fish gene
that was inserted into the genetic complex
so that it wouldn't rot as fast.
It wasn't for years that I understood
exactly what I had seen and what was going on.
I had no idea of the complexities of what was to come.
You get people in the media on board
telling these stories, and for the last 15 years,
people have been eating genetically modified tomatoes.
I hope not because I didn't know any better
as a reporter, than to say, "No, run for your life!"
Because the question is, what will be
in the next generation?
Exactly, because when you're talking about rats,
of course, you're seeing the DNA changes
and very quick generational changes.
In humans, I don't want to wait to see
what's going to happen.
I think they certainly should be banned.
This brings us also, we've talked about that,
we haven't talked too much about the air we breathe
and the vitality, and energetic imprint of the air.
You're really big on negative ions.
Mm-hmm, sure.
Can you talk about that
and how we can infuse those in
where they naturally are not?
It was big study done, first of all,
by our Russian scientist Chizhevsky in '40s and '50s,
where it was demonstrated that air,
having no negative ions, has very dramatic
effect to life.
Experiment was very precisely done.
It was two sealed cages of rats,
and in one cage, it was air where all ions
was filtered out.
In the other cage was air with increased quantity
of negative ions.
It was demonstrated that in the cage with negative ions,
longevity was three times bigger than in the other cage.
Well, that's substantial.
Three times the lifespan.
Yes, three times.
It is really tremendous effect, 300%.
In Russia, I heard in your lecture,
that it's required to have negative ion generators
in, what, hospitals, in clinics of certain types?
This is good thinking.
It's not required.
It's just done?
It's not regulation to have it,
but most of things, they do have it.
They do.
It's not a requirement, this is voluntary.
Yes.
It's not voluntary, because it is up to the doctors
whether they have it or haven't,
because they have some fundings,
they have some resources.
It's quite popular because it's very well-known in Russia.
How can we, besides the negative ion generators,
what are some of the other ways in which
we can infuse more negative ions into
our own atmospheres in our homes, for example?
First of all, those negative ions should be connected
with water vapors.
Water vapors, okay.
We should some appropriate content of water vapors,
of humidity in the air, and then,
the best if it is negative charged water vapors.
In Russia and in Europe now, we have special generators,
electron generators that produce water vapors
enriched with negative ions.
It is, in Europe and in Russia, it's quite available.
I don't know about how it is in United States.
But as it is coming fast, then I am absolutely sure.
It's not common, but you can
find them if you wish, yes.
It's very good because it's very easy to check.
You just need to install it in your bedroom
and you will find that you sleep much better and less time.
What does it do to the immune system as well?
Of course, because it's very good support
to immune system.
As that study of the three times
of longevity would indicate, same thing for humans.
Yes, yes, yes, absolutely.
There's every reason to do this,
especially, you say, as we sleep in particular.
Yes.
What about in the workplace?
In Russia, again, it's very typical
to have these negative ions in workplace, in offices,
because, I give you a very funny example.
I had a friend of mine who was a big business man.
He's smoker.
He smokes a lot.
When you enter to his business office,
you feel the beautiful air of pine trees.
No smoke at all.
He's smoking, but he has negative ion generator
that is specially designed to prevent the smoke
coming from him to other places.
Oh, I can see the practical application here.
Somebody who doesn't want their wife to know
they're still smoking. (laughs)
Absolutely, absolutely.
It's a very good application.
That's wonderful.
You know that this smoke is very dangerous
for non-smoking people, by being nearby.
Yes, secondhand.
There's a lot of awareness of that in the United States.
It's absolutely sure that it's really damaging effect.
But with this negative ion generator, it's absolutely safe.
You just mentioned pine trees a moment ago.
Yes, absolutely.
The notion that where you have forests
that have been denuded and ruined, like in Palestine,
where all of the foliage has now been removed
and is gone.
What effect does that have on the health of the people?
Of course, it is absolutely dramatic effect
because the area where it was pine trees,
it was big forests, now they are totally devastated.
Of course, people are living in desert.
They live in very bad condition,
and if you look to the health state
of people living in those countries,
of course it's quite low.
They have a lot of problems.
They have a lot of diseases, skin diseases,
bronchial diseases, because they have very bad air.
The vitality of the pine tree itself,
also, does it create a negative ion atmosphere?
Or what does the pine tree itself do?
I'm using pine specifically because
I heard you mention them.
They, as any tree, they produce oxygen
and this is charged oxygen, so it's active oxygen.
Pine trees, they specifically produce much more
active oxygen compared to other plants
and other vegetations.
I think I might be backing into it at this point,
but you talk about eco-genetics.
Now, what does that mean and what are its implications?
It means that now we have some influence to nature,
mostly be polluting nature.
This nature pollution has effect on our gene forms.
Genetic profile of people now is changeable.
We can see this in second generation,
in children, because we have more and more children
who are born with some problems.
Birth defects.
Genetically embedded problems,
due to genetically modified DNA of their parents.
We should understand that our ecology signs
and our troubles, those are not just for animals,
but for ourself.
If you wouldn't take care of this pollution,
of this food that is polluted,
of water that is polluted,
if we wouldn't take care of ourself,
then we need to understand that
we'll have this problem in next generations.
And the subsequent generations.
Yes.
Let's take one subject of just
mad cow disease itself, and the genesis of mad cow disease.
At the beginning, it was unclear what has happened,
but then it was studied and demonstrated absolutely exactly.
It was idea to feed cows, to add to cow food,
some meat, processed meat, because at factories
which produce meat, they have a lot of leftovers
that was just destroyed somehow.
Someone came to clever idea to process
those leftovers to produce some powder,
and to add this powder to cow's food.
It was found that cows, they grow much faster.
They accept weight because they have direct Albumin
Because you know that from grass, also of some other food.
they have long three stage processing of food
to get to Albumin.
Here, they get direct Albumin and it was found
that they grow up much faster.
But then it has created this problem of cow madness,
because somehow it had this, those Albumins,
they had absolutely disastrous effect on cow's brain.
It was found that this is a danger for people as well,
because this is --
And this is still a common practice.
This is still what the cows, commercially, are fed.
As I know, in most countries, it is forbidden now.
Is it?
It is forbidden, yes, yes, yes, as I know.
Because when they found the reason,
of course, they made special regulations that forbid it.
These kinds of rendered meats and fats are --
That's why it was a problem only for developed countries.
In Russia, we never had this problem because --
Well, when cows graze on grass,
you're not going to have mad cow disease.
Yes, absolutely.
Also, you were talking about
utilizing all of the senses, and one of the things
you mentioned today was also the sense of smell.
Can you talk about the nature of --
There was a Nobel Prize that was awarded
for a study on the sense of smell.
How do the senses play in, and particularly,
the sense of scent?
Yes, yes.
You see, in our life, the sense of smell
plays very important role that people don't understand.
Because we just smell some perfumes,
we sometimes smell food, and that's it.
But in reality, we constantly react to different smells.
This has a subconscious reaction.
For animals, it is one of the main source of information.
For survival,.
For survival, for operating the environment,
for intercommunication, this the main source.
Any dog, any cat, that would always smell everything.
For us, of course, it's much less important.
But anyway, we react to smell because we are
part of animal kingdom.
The smell of food, it triggers a lot of physiological
mechanisms in our digestive system.
When we have this good smell, we immediately trigger
some process in our stomach to be prepared
for the particular food.
That's why it is so bad to have food with artificial smell.
And also have other elements in the environment
that destroy our sense of smell, certain chemicals.
Yes, absolutely.
Of course, of course, sure.
Of course, we should understand that smell,
it is a strong sexual attractor.
We need to use perfumes, we need to use
different cosmetics, and to use it clever.
When some people, they mix different cosmetics together,
then, of course, it creates very funny effect.
Right, a funny effect. (laughs)
When you look at the lack of our ability
in the developed world to have a full-blown
sense of smell in operation because the foods
don't particularly have them.
If you go buy flowers at the market,
they've been raised, also factory raised,
so you're not smelling those flowers in the same way.
You're saying that on an energetic level,
if this isn't beginning the processes
of opening up, starting the digestive enzymes and so forth,
what is the net effect of that when we go about
then consuming our food?
Yeah, of course, if it is artificial food,
it has no smell, then it creates no signals to our system.
But, at the same time, it's the signal that it's artificial.
Well, okay. (laughing)
It's funny that you mentioned flowers.
I had one friend who came from United States,
living there maybe for 10 years,
and she came back to Russia.
She thought the worst impression was that,
in the United States, no flowers have smell.
Yes, unless they're wild or in your back yard.
Yes, yes, absolutely.
Exactly, that's very true.
You send your lover or sweetie a bouquet
of a dozen red roses and there's no scent.
It's lost half of its beauty right there.
Yes, absolutely, it's very pity.
Smell is related to our memory,
that's why when we have something significant in our life
and we have some smell with this,
then this just particular smell can trigger this recall,
trigger these memories.
Another common element of our lives
in the developed world, and undeveloped world,
or third-world nations, as it was said,
is cell phones.
They're everywhere now.
You have measured the effects of what happens
to a person when they're talking on a cellphone
for as little as 10 minutes.
Can you talk about some of your findings?
We have done a very precise blind study,
where people was keeping cell phones nearby their head,
and some cellphones were turned on,
some cellphones were turned off.
It was found, first of all, significant difference,
statistically significant, and it was found that
people really react to cellphone emanation,
but very differently.
For some, it is quite little reaction, non-significant.
For some, it is really strong significant reactions.
Even the average was quite,
looking at your charts, the average reaction
was still significant.
Yes, very significant, because about 10% of population
react very significantly.
When we average in a group, say about 30 people,
we have significant reaction to cellphone.
But what is most important is this reaction lasts
for quite a long time.
Even when people stop using cellphone,
they still have this change in their condition.
First of all, it is heart rate.
It is immune system.
It is energy system.
It really has some effect.
It drops for as much as, what?
How long does it take for a person to start recovering
from their 10 minute cellphone call?
About half an hour, from half an hour to an hour,
depending on the person as well.
If you spend all day on the cellphone,
especially kids and teenagers, then what's happening?
It may be absolutely dramatic, absolutely.
Brain tumors, do you think there's a link?
They may develop a lot of different problems.
It may be brain problems, and a lot of cases now,
as we know, we have increase of brain problems
with children and young generation, strong increase.
It is, a lot of doctors, they decided that it's
related to cellphone using.
What can we do to ameliorate those problems?
First of all, we need to use the modern cellphones.
Because the older the model, the higher the influence.
The more the radiation.
Yes, because in modern cellphones,
they try to diminish radiation.
They try to use higher frequency,
and higher frequency is less influence.
They try to use impulse settings,
and again, it's less influence.
Second, we need to use some earphones.
Earpiece.
Earpiece, yes, yes, yes.
Just get the phone away from your --
Yes, absolutely, absolutely.
Just to keep it away from our bodies.
You're saying, not just your ear, your body?
Yes, absolutely.
What if you keep it in the breast pocket
of your jacket?
It is very bad.
It is a worst station, mostly for women.
It may really have dramatic outcome,
because the increase of breast cancer
in developed countries.
It was exactly related to the development
of these network connections.
We have all, of course, it's only suspicion.
We can't tell for sure.
Absolutely it's possible to tell for sure.
But as we have some probability,
it's better to keep it away.
Right.
The best to keep it is outside of the body in purse,
or just in the back pocket.
But then you sit on it. (laughs)
Yes, well it depends.
But you've got a lot of cushion there
to keep it away from other organs.
Yes, yes, yes.
It is better to keep it away from main organs,
like heart, like liver, like kidney, like genital organs,
because it has some influence for sure.
At the same time, we don't want to reject them totally.
We will use it, for sure, but we need to take care,
first of all, to keep them away,
to use the different earpieces,
to increase our immune system,
and to use different protective devices,
protective sets.
When you're traveling around the world,
you go to a lot of exotic places,
you go to a lot of pristine places,
and you take your instrumentation with you
and you measure energy signatures from water,
from mountaintops, from various places,
and a lot of this is really lending credence to
what was known throughout history
before in ancient times.
Sure.
what are some of those essential truths
that you have learned through being able to
measure the fields scientifically?
You know, there was a lot of historical anecdotes
that it was places of high energy,
where people gathered, where they had different ceremonies,
where later they have been creating different
church buildings, temples, and one of our aim is
to support these claims, to find out
whether it's real or it's just anecdotal evidence.
In our measurements, we've really found that
there are a lot of places that have been considered
as holy places, as sacred places, that have really
very specific energy patterns.
Because we can measure in different substances,
in water, in air, in soil, in vegetation,
and it was found a lot of confirmations of those facts.
What are a few of the places on the planet
that you saw what you would expect to,
in terms of the high energy output of a given area?
We need to take into account one moment.
When there are a lot of people around,
then their influence is much more stronger
than the influence of place itself.
That's why, for example, when I've been to Machu Picchu,
we've tried to make measurements,
but it was nothing significant,
because it was so many tourists around.
Human energy, it is very strong.
It has strong influence to everything.
We try to measure where we can get access
to the places at night, or without people,
or at some special stations.
Of course, our experience is not that big.
We've been measuring and had very high effects
in Russian monasteries, in far north of Russia,
where it is very remote monasteries in islands,
in (indistinct speech)
that was very high energy output.
Then it is tiny islands with spirals.
Oh, the labyrinths.
Labyrinths, yes, yes.
Like crop circles, very powerful the geometry.
Yes, absolutely, it was created in Celtic times
by ancient civilizations, and of course, again,
had very strong energies.
Then we've been measuring in natural places,
like (indistinct speech), waterfalls,
in different plateaus and mountains,
and again, we've found very high energy outputs.
The final findings was in the crop circles.
Yes.
It was only one measurement, but it was very interesting.
We plan to make it again this summer,
and to see whether it is --
Well, it's interesting because
I have heard of this, other people using magnometers,
and so forth, simple devices, in that there's
all this debate as to what's an authentic crop circle,
versus a man-made crop circle.
What's interesting is the geometry itself
also seems to be producing a signature,
an energetic signature.
Yeah, absolutely.
You are absolutely right.
It is a lot of controversy, whether it is authentic,
whether it is man-made,
and again, we don't know whether it is the influence
of place itself that attracted this crop circle,
or crop circle that influenced the place.
At the moment, it is just a question.
Right.
But to answer the question, of course,
we need to make different measurements.
As I know, it was interesting data by using magnetometers.
Then we have interesting data with our instrument.
Simple devices, they practically have no real output
and all the measurement of radioactivity say no,
they were not significant.
As this research is just non-supported by anyone,
it is just by interested people who do this.
Of course, it comes very slow because
any scientific research needs funding.
Right, right, and these are rather esoteric,
low on the list for corporate funding certainly. (laughter)
Yes, absolutely, absolutely.
It is easy to come somewhere and meditate,
you need only just little money for travel,
but if you need to carry around all your equipment,
then it's much more complicated.
Absolutely.
Well, let's come full circle back to human beings again
and the energy output.
The point you made a little bit ago is important,
that human beings possess a great amount of energy
and energy influence.
What happens where two or more gather, as they say?
You mean --
Where people come together with intention.
Yeah, with our camera, electrophotonic camera,
we can measure the influence of people to each other.
Because this camera, for one hand, is very sensitive.
From other hand, it's very stable.
That's why we can use it in medicine.
When people meet each other with intention,
would it be love, or hatred,
then they really strongly influence each other.
It may be done even without conscious understanding.
You know, this notion of gaze from the back.
It's very well-known, it was studied, it really exists.
We see this in real experiments.
We have a person seated in a comfortable position
in a chair, and then other people come from the back.
This person, he doesn't know who's coming
and whether they are coming or not.
We really can see a tremendous difference
for people who have no connection with this person
and, for example, for fiance or love being
who comes from the back.
It is clear evidence that we influence each other.
We influence each other,
so we should have some kind of clear intentionality.
We should be somewhat aware and conscious of
how we're interfacing with others in the world.
Absolutely, absolutely.
We should understand that if we send positive emotions,
if we send love to each other,
then we increase, not only other person's energy field
but our own energy field.
Yes, and we're also working through the waters.
We're working through the waters of the body.
Yes, absolutely, absolutely.
When people send hatred, when they send envy,
negative emotions, they first of all,
decrease their own immune system.
Yes.
That's why all bad witches, they were always
presented as very ugly creatures.
Yes, yes.
All fairy tale fairies were very nice always,
because it's understandable.
So, you not only damage your own field,
but you damage the person that you're
sending these intentions to in some cases.
Of course.
Really, the key here is,
this is in a universe made of energy.
We can't ignore this fact anymore.
Matter is almost irrelevant compared to
the subject of energy.
It seems essential, and really, training the children
from an early age to understand this.
Is this, in your opinion, a critical part of it?
Yes, absolutely, because children,
they are very susceptible to this information.
For them, it's very easily understandable.
They don't have these prejudices as people
with higher education.
The prejudices, yeah.
Yes, yes, and if they are trained how,
if they see in instruments how it is really effective,
then they change their attitude to each other.
Are they doing this in Russia?
Yes, yes.
Are they teaching children to recognize
and utilize energy?
Yes?
Yes, we do this.
From what age, from the earliest ages?
In school, they do it in school.
They demonstrate how it works and the children
are very, very interested in this.
In our last conference last year,
we had a group of children who done real research
and studying the influence of
different subject's energy fields.
Well, it's my hope that some of
the other countries of the world, including the U.S.
where we are right now in Santa Fe,
can take some notice of what you're doing
in the Soviet Union on so many levels
with the understanding of our connection,
not our connection to,
of our universal makeup of energy.
Yes, I am absolutely sure that it's coming.
Of course, maybe not as fast as we would have desired.
You're doing your part though.
Yes, we are doing --
You're out there educating around the world.
You have a crazy work schedule.
Yes, absolutely.
I thank you so much for taking the time.
I know you're very busy and you fly out tomorrow.
I also want to tell you, I really like your hairdo.
Oh, thank you very much. (laughing)
I saw pictures of you with hair.
This is good. (laughing)
Thank you very much, thank you very much.
It looks nice.
It looks very hip and you're very handsome
with this hairdo. (laughs)
Oh, thank you very much.
Wonderful, wonderful.
Thank you.
Okay, wonderful, thank you.
It was a tremendous pleasure being with you.
Tremendous pleasure.
Thank you.
You have wonderful energy,
and you both work as a team,
so it's been such a pleasure.
That's nice to hear you say,
being the energy man.
Yes, thank you, thank you.
I can't tell you what a pleasure it was
spending time with this man.
If you'd like to know more about his ground-breaking work,
you can go to his website at the link below.
Meanwhile, you might also enjoy our interview
with Harry Oldfield and his photography technology,
which also captures energy around biological organisms,
including the early detection of disease.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(gentle instrumental music)